[Music]
well the Columbus Dispatch said that I'm
here to make you cry not really this is
a story of hope and healing and how one
finds their voice but what we're really
going to talk about is human trafficking
and I'm going to tell you a secret in
this time too
the secret is that most of you don't
know that this is a silent epidemic
among our American youth and the secret
also is that I didn't know I didn't know
what happened to me all those years ago
was called him and trafficking when we
think of human trafficking we get an
image in our mind we know that human
trafficking is the coca fields we know
that it's Indian boys being sold by
their parents for a debt they own to
make bricks and carpets we know human
trafficking involves plantations and
field workers working for no pay we know
that it's Cambodian girls and Thailand
girls working as sex slaves in Asian
brothels first tourists so that come
over we know this but we don't know that
it's somebody like me we don't think
that human trafficking can happen to a
kid that grew up in a home and in a town
just like New Albany are Dublin this is
a picture of my first communion I'm sure
many of you have a picture similar to
this do you remember doing your hair in
rollers and sleeping and them and if my
brothers knew I had this picture they'd
probably be pretty mad those outfits are
God ugly so but it's just to show you
that I came from a normal family I had a
mom and a dad I wasn't beaten I didn't
do drugs I wasn't to run away I wasn't
promiscuous I was a good kid and I grew
up in nice houses
my dad was a engineer for General
Electric and he got promoted and we
moved every two years like clockwork so
I was always the new
I didn't have aunts and uncles and
grandparents that were in town that I
could talk to I didn't have teachers and
friends that would say oh you know
Teresa's acting a little different so
here I am 15 years old
and we just moved to this little town
called Birmingham Michigan and I thought
it was an amazing town and I was
eventually got a crush on this boy and
he was different he wasn't like the
regular boys that I went to school with
the normal voice I went to school with
or jeans and flannel shirts and they
took a week off in the fall to go
hunting with their dads sound familiar
he wasn't like that he wore slacks to
school every day that were pressed with
the line down the middle he wore Ralph
Lorenz shirts he had gold chains and he
smelled really good I wasn't used to
this now my friends noticed him spending
a lot of time talking to me always
around when I turned and they said you
know what if you want to be friends with
us you won't talk to him and my parents
were really strict and they didn't let
me date until I was 16 and they said
you're not going to go out with him so
one day I was going home after school
stop by my locker and he's standing
there right by my locker and he said do
you want a ride home from school now
Here I am 15 I have a crush on him and
I'm not allowed to like him what do you
think I said heck yeah
I was like all right you know this is
not a date right just so we clarify this
is not a date he's just taking me home
so we go out to his car and he has a
brand-new black Trans Am does anybody
remember those great so I'm all excited
and we get in this car we pull out the
wrong way out of the parking lot I lived
to the left and he pulled out to the
right and I said whoa boy wait wait I
live this way he said I know but I just
need to go home and grab something now
red flags went off on my head my parents
had had lots of talks with me but then I
thought Theresa you're being you're
being silly you know him you go to
church with him thought everything will
be okay so we went to his house and if
you think of my house looked big it was
a shack
compared to his and I was curious and he
said do you want to come in I just need
to grab something now more red flags
went off and I said all the right things
I said no no no my mom was waiting for
me I need to get home but he turned to
me and he said three words it only took
three words he said I like you it's all
I took I ignored all those red flags
that day and I thought everything would
be okay but it wasn't because all those
red flags were right what he did is very
common even today he showed me around he
offered me a pop and unfortunately that
pop was laced with something and I did
not know that I became very dizzy and he
proceeded to rape me now when I went
home that afternoon I didn't rush and
tell my mom you see my family was
Catholic and we really valued virginity
until you got married
as much as family I valued it and I
didn't want them to know that that was
no longer the case I didn't want them to
see me different and you see like many
parents we don't want our children to go
through the same mistakes that we made
my mom got pregnant out of wedlock and
had to get married and she wasn't happy
about it so she used this technique that
some parents use that tough love and she
said Teresa if you ever have sex you're
going to get pregnant and then you're
out to kind of scare me to be straight
right I believed her so here I am coming
home was thinking wow I just had sex I'm
gonna be kicked out i disobeyed them I
went with him and I don't want them to
think of me different so I didn't say
anything I thought I'll just handle this
on my own
but it got worse because a couple days
later he came to me and he had an
envelope in his hands
and in that envelope were pictures and
he said my cousins were there taking
pictures and they have a plan and that
plan is that you're going to earn these
back or else is that we know where your
dad works we know where he lives
we're going to show them to your dad's
boss take them to his house we're going
to post them around school
now I I was new there I was trying to
make friends I figured my dad would get
he would get fired and he said we're
gonna show them to the priest at church
where I was really involved in so to me
I thought I had no other options no
other turnes and I still had no idea
what earned them back meant what it
meant was they would kill my brothers if
I didn't do what I said they would hurt
my parents they would call my room in
the middle of the night and demand that
I appear immediately for service now I
didn't put risque clothing on or do my
hair or my makeup I usually went in my
pajamas and I usually went barefoot so I
could sneak out quietly I would sneak
out to another Street in our subdivision
where that Trans Am was waiting for me
and I didn't walk the streets and knock
on car doors I was taken to very
beautiful upscale homes where they would
usher me in these side doors down the
stairs to these opulent areas where only
men were allowed there was always a
bedroom and I would be taken and locked
away sometimes tied up sometimes
tortured I was thinking the other day
Wow there was families upstairs women
and children they must have heard my
screams this went on for too long years
I remember one night laying there
totally exhausted just wanting to go
home so I could get a few hours of sleep
before I went to school the next day and
I remember laying there and the door
opened again and I looked up and it was
my trafficker with an older gentleman
and he said something to me that nobody
had ever said he said what's your name
nobody ever asked me that and I knew
from experience I wasn't allowed to
speak I had done that one time so I kept
my eyes down and I didn't look up and he
looked at the trafficker and said what's
her name
and the trafficker looked at him with
disgust
and said what does it matter she has no
name now to hear that as a kid as an
adult it breaks your soul
these guys were ruthless but this man
didn't know he didn't know that I wasn't
there by choice he didn't know that I
was only 16 years old he had no idea so
how big of a problem is this well we
know that 80% of victims are women and
50% are children the University of
Pennsylvania has found that 350 thousand
American youth are at risk of being
sexually exploited that's a lot of kids
the FBI and National Missing Children's
Clearinghouse have said that a hundred
thousand American kids are being
sexually trafficked right this very
minute can you believe that
and I said I'm on the Attorney General's
Commission here in Ohio to study human
trafficking and before we were able to
pass the bill into law they wanted to
know how big of a problem was this in
Ohio in our communities right here in
the University of Toledo found that over
a thousand 79 kids are being trafficked
in Ohio your kids right this very minute
but how many is too many how many
Teresa's are too many is one I love this
quote it says I never met a juvenile and
prostitute and prostitution who didn't
have a pimp you see in our country human
trafficking is different it's not the
plantations and the brick workers and
the brothels
it's called teen prostitution here it
comes in a different form and we don't
know it because in our country we think
of prostitution as an option something
people choose to do we don't know that
the average woman has to have sex with
ten
fifteen men a night every night of the
year we don't know that she has a 40%
higher chance of dying than any of you
most likely she will die of murder drug
overdose or suicide because it's so hard
to take she will become involved in the
legal system the medical system the
social service system and without a
doubt she will lose her voice I get the
opportunity to work for an amazing
organization called grace Haven this is
a home that we are building outside of
Columbus that will house ten kids under
the age of 18 who've been victimized by
human trafficking most of them can't go
back home they don't have good families
they've been runaways and they have no
other option our home will allow them to
get their GED it'll allow them to heal
to get therapy to play to be a kid again
because most of these kids have had to
do very adult two things that most of
you have never had to do they have
post-traumatic stress and Stockholm
Syndrome it's like being in a cult so it
takes years and years to heal from
something like this and grace Haven is
going to do that the other thing that I
get to do with grace Haven is I get to
work with survivors and I get to tell my
story all over the place so one night I
was speaking to a young lady who is 20
years old she's from Ohio and she was
sold by her mom when she was four years
old she was having a very difficult time
not getting counseling and I was taking
bets that she wasn't going to make it
through the weekend I went to Detroit
that day to do a talk and it was the
first time I had gone back to Detroit I
wasn't happy about it and I was driving
home afterwards and something happened I
got lost I started seeing signs for the
names of the cities I had been taken to
before and I started to freak out I
remembered my worst night ever I
remember the night when I went out to
meet that Trans Am
and it was a different driver they
kidnapped me and they drove me very far
away from home they drugged me and beat
me when we stopped we arrived at a
little dingy diner motel in the inner
city Detroit the kind that's the
l-shaped kind with the doors on the
outside and the broken-down cars and
there's always like a 24-hour diner on
the end I had never been to a place like
that they pulled me by my hair from the
car to a little open motel room that was
open and twenty men waited for me here I
was the only girl 16 in a sea of men and
that night I was auctioned off to the
highest bidder over and over again until
I passed out when I woke up I was naked
and bleeding I couldn't find my clothes
I didn't have any shoes I didn't have
any money I didn't have any ID and I had
no idea where I was talk about total
despair so when I'm remembering this
night I remembered I really could have
used somebody to talk to
I needed somebody but I didn't have
anybody cuz nobody knew this was going
on to a kid like me and I was
remembering Sophie and I thought what
can I do to reach out to these kids I
can share my story all the time but what
can I do to reach them and I decided we
have this wonderful 1-800 number now
it's a toll-free hotline a human
trafficking hotline I'm gonna get that
to them in their darkest moment and that
darkest moment is in those motels but
they all go to the bathroom to clean up
afterwards and I thought I'm going to
put that 1-800 number on a tiny bar of
soap for them to find because they need
someone to call so at that moment soap
was created and I thought you know god I
really don't need another thing to do
I'm really busy you know what what
should I call this if I'm going to do
this what should I call it and all the
time I'm trying to drive out of Detroit
and I hear my head soap like that's cute
god that's care well what is what is
soap stand for and like this pops into
my head
save our adolescents Purim prostitution
okay this is it
I'm going to create this soap and then I
thought well what am I gonna do with it
I'm gonna where am I gonna take it and I
decided to take it to cities where the
huge demand where people were coming
into a city and the demand for sex for
sale was high so he took it to the Super
Bowl
we started there and I got volunteers
from all over the country to come and
label ten thousand bars of soap
and we gave it to the motels for free
and they took it they took it because
and they said we didn't know what to do
we see this all the time and we didn't
know what to do
at that time I also met two young
college students and those guys said
Teresa we really want to do this at one
Motel the policemen tell us this is
where the pimps are taking the girls and
I said yeah I don't know he said please
we'll give it to them the hope for the
whole month I'm like oh okay and so I
gave them soap for two months I tapped
into my life savings supplied them with
all the soap they needed for this one
motel it was a suburban extended stay
motel outside of Dallas and that was in
April in May a phone call came a young
lady 21 years old had been kidnapped
from Milwaukee by a couple she had been
driven to New Orleans and she had been a
forced to work as a stripper in a
prostitute their next stop was Dallas
they took her to this extended suburban
stay and locked her in the bathroom and
made her take a bath of cold water she
pounded on the door and begged to get
out and go for a walk for a few minutes
they let her and with her she took a bar
of soap and she made a phone call a tiny
little bar of soap helped her find her
voice and find freedom this young lady
is not so lucky
we decided that we are going to take the
soap to every event that we can imagine
we're taking it in this year to the
Detroit Auto Show to the Super Bowl to
the Daytona Bike Week to the National
Democrat and Republican conventions
we're taking it everywhere the demand
for sex is higher and guess what that
includes Columbus Ohio this young lady
is for sale in Columbus Ohio right this
very minute
I found her ad when I was looking up the
Columbus marathon says on here she's 22
does anybody in this room thinks she's
22 no she looks like 12 to me she's from
Columbus and she's for sale right now I
do this for her because I don't want her
to have to go through what I endured all
those years I'm sorry so this story is a
story of hope of how a hope how a house
just a simple house can heal it's a
story of how I borrow soap and rescue
and it's a story of how I found my voice
and now you know thank you
you